Create 1.13 release notes (#582)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2020-05-28-release-notes-1.13/index.md

---
title: "Kyma 1.13 Tokyo"
author:
  name: "Klaudia Grzondziel, Technical Writer @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes
type: release
releaseTag: "1.13.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-113"
---

> In Japanese culture, there is a concept of _kintsugi_ (金継ぎ) which can be loosely translated as "golden joinery". It assumes mending objects with gold so that they are even more beautiful after improvements are made. With the 1.13 Tokyo release, we follow this amazing custom and provide some golden improvements to Kyma features. This includes installation improvements in Kyma Operator, a couple of tweaks in the brand new Serverless, and changes in Kyma CLI command nomenclature. Apart from that, this release brings yet another set of new Compass features and redesigned backup functionality. Continue reading the release notes for the full story behind Kyma 1.13 Tokyo.

Reviewer: `they are even more beautiful after improvements are made` -> `become more beautiful with every improvement` ? or `become more beautiful after the improvements` (I don't know if we really need `are made` here, but it's just a suggestion :)

<!-- overview -->

See the overview of all changes in this release:

> - [Application Connector](#application-connector) - Deprecation of Connector and Application Registry APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Application Connector](#application-connector) - Deprecated Connector and Application Registry APIs
```

- [Installation](#installation) - Improved error handling in Kyma Operator
- [Eventing](#eventing) - Tracing enabled within Event Mesh

> - [Compass](#compass) - Availability zones in provisioned clusters, hide Applications from Runtimes, Fetch request for API specification

Reviewer: `Fetch request` > `Fetch Request` ? It's capitalized in the compass docs

- [CLI](#cli) - Provisioning commands renamed
- [Serverless](#serverless) - Caching enabled, improved ServiceBinding creation, Kubeless Function CRD to be removed
- [Backup](#backup) - Backup functionality redesigned, backup documentation provided

## Application Connector

> ### Deprecation of Connector and Application Registry APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deprecated Connector and Application Registry APIs
```

With [Compass](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass) being the target API for the Application Connectivity topics, APIs of both Connector Service and Application Registry have been deprecated. To learn how to install Compass and integrate with it, refer to the [Compass documentation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/compass/#installation-enable-compass-in-kyma) or to the [Director GraphQL schema](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/components/director/pkg/graphql/schema.graphql) directly. Backward compatibility is preserved by the introduction of [Connectivity Adapter](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/tree/master/components/connectivity-adapter).

> 

Reviewer: Remove line? :) Applies also to other places :)

## Installation

### Improved error handling in Kyma Operator

> Operations performed by Kyma Operator are now atomic. As a result, if an error occurs while processing a component, the controller restores the initial state of that component and retries the step. For more details on [error handling and retry policy](https://kyma-project.io/docs/master/root/kyma#installation-error-handling), refer to the documentation.

Reviewer 2: `Operations performed by Kyma Operator are now atomic. ` -> `Kyma Operator now performs all operations independently of any other processes.` ?

> Operations performed by Kyma Operator are now atomic. As a result, if an error occurs while processing a component, the controller restores the initial state of that component and retries the step. For more details on [error handling and retry policy](https://kyma-project.io/docs/master/root/kyma#installation-error-handling), refer to the documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Operations performed by Kyma Operator are now atomic. As a result, if an error occurs while processing a component, the controller restores the initial state of that component and retries the step. Read about [error handling and retry policy](https://kyma-project.io/docs/master/root/kyma#installation-error-handling) for more details.
```

## Eventing

### Tracing enabled within Event Mesh

> With Kyma 1.13, you can trace event propagation throughout the cluster. Tracing will work both for the default [NatssChannel](https://github.com/knative/eventing-contrib/tree/master/natss/config) implementation used in Kyma and also when you [configure eventing to work with the Kafka Channel](https://kyma-project.io/docs/master/components/event-mesh#tutorials-configure-the-kafka-channel). If you opt for eventing with the Kafka Channel, enable Tracing by configuring Istio. To do so, [increase trace sampling](https://istio.io/docs/tasks/observability/distributed-tracing/configurability/#trace-sampling) and use Jaeger to visualize traces.

Reviewer 2: pls link to the new release in docs, not to the master

> 

Reviewer 2: `and also when you [configure eventing to work with the Kafka Channel](https://kyma-project.io/docs/master/components/event-mesh#tutorials-configure-the-kafka-channel).` -> `and with the [Kafka Channel configuration](https://kyma-project.io/docs/master/components/event-mesh#tutorials-configure-the-kafka-channel).`

Reviewer: Also: `To do so, [increase trace sampling](https://istio.io/docs/tasks/observability/distributed-tracing/configurability/#trace-sampling). You can then use Jaeger to visualize traces.`
(let's separate these two as the first one is an instruction and visualizing traces with Jaeger is kind of not part of it)

## Compass

### Availability zones in provisioned clusters

> From now on, the Runtime Provisioner fully supports the availability zone functionality exposed by Hyperscalers. With the use of Gardener API, it is now possible to provision clusters with **zoned** parameter set to `true` as long as the list of availability zones for the requested cluster is provided.

Reviewer 2: 1. Hyperscalers -> hyperscalers
2. with **zoned** parameter -> with the **zoned** parameter

### Hide Applications from Runtimes

> 

Reviewer 2: `### Hidden Applications in Runtimes` or `### Applications hidden in Runtimes`

Author: As I've mentioned in the previous comment, the case is not to hide Applications **in** Runtimes, but to hide them **from** Runtimes so that Applications are not visible to Runtimes. I can change the heading to `Applications hidden from Runtimes`.

> It is now possible to configure Compass so that it doesn't return Applications labeled with specific labels in response to the `applicationsForRuntime` query used by Runtimes. To learn [how to hide Applications from Runtimes](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/docs/director/03-01-hide-applications-from-runtimes.md), read the documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is now possible to configure Compass not to return Applications labeled with specific labels in response to the `applicationsForRuntime` query used by Runtimes. To learn [how to hide Applications from Runtimes](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/docs/director/03-01-hide-applications-from-runtimes.md), read the documentation.
```

### Fetch Request for API specification

[Fetch Request](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/docs/director/03-fetch-requests.md) is a type in the Director API that contains all information needed to fetch a specification from the given URL. If a Fetch Request is specified, the Director makes a synchronous call to the specified URL and downloads the specification.

## CLI

### Renamed provisioning commands

> Kyma CLI commands for cluster provisioning on GKE and AKS are now renamed. There are also three separate provisioning commands for Gardener. With that, the usage is more intuitive and provider-specific default values are applied for all Gardener commands. These are the available provisioning commands:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kyma CLI commands for cluster provisioning on GKE and AKS are now renamed. There are also three separate provisioning commands for Gardener, and provider-specific default values are applied for all Gardener commands, making CLI even more intuitive now. These are the available provisioning commands:
```

```
kyma provision gke
kyma provision aks
kyma provision gardener gcp
kyma provision gardener az
kyma provision gardener aws

> ```

Reviewer: You can add a reference to the commands in general: https://github.com/kyma-project/cli#commands

Author: Added 👍

## Serverless

### Caching enabled

We have significantly reduced the overall time in which Functions are built. All steps executed during the build are now cached, which speeds up the whole process. For example, thanks to caching, all packages are installed only when you specifically modify them, not every time you build a Function as it was until now.

### Improved ServiceBinding creation

We also improved the way ServiceBindings are created for Function. So far, you could only create them when the Function was already running, so the order was sequential. We modified the component logic, and now it is possible to create ServiceBindings and Functions synchronously.

### Kubeless Function CRD to be removed

With the next Kyma release, the `functions.kubeless.io` will be removed. As Kyma no longer uses Kubeless, all functions will be migrated to `functions.serverless.kyma-project.io`. 

## Backup

### Backup functionality redesigned

> This release, we removed the Backup component from Kyma, including the component-specific Velero drivers. The backup functionality is still available in a redesigned form that is based on a managed Kubernetes cluster for periodic backups of Kubernetes objects. The volumes, however, are not included in the automated backup procedure. That's why you should back up your volumes periodically using the VolumeSnapshot API resource. Read more about [backing up Kyma](https://kyma-project.io/docs/master/root/kyma/#installation-back-up-kyma) in the documentation.

Reviewer 2: `This release`  -> `In this release`

### Backup documentation

> With the new backup strategy, we provide a brand new set of corresponding documentation. Refer to it to learn more about:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the new backup strategy, we provide a brand new set of the corresponding documentation. Refer to it to learn:
```

- [How backup works for Kyma and what are the on-demand volume snapshots](https://kyma-project.io/docs/master/root/kyma/#installation-back-up-kyma)

> - [How to create on-demand volume snapshots](https://kyma-project.io/docs/master/root/kyma/#tutorials-create-on-demand-volume-snapshots)

Reviewer 2: How to create on-demand volume snapshots...locally? Maybe it would be good to specify it to easily distinguish this tutorial from the one below.

Author: The first one changed into `How to back up your volumes using on-demand volume snapshots`.

---
title: "Kyma 1.13 Tokyo"
author:
  name: "Klaudia Grzondziel, Technical Writer @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes
type: release
releaseTag: "1.13.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-113"
---

> In Japanese culture, there is a concept of _kintsugi_ (金継ぎ) which can be loosely translated as "golden joinery". It assumes mending objects with gold so that they become more beautiful after the improvements. With the 1.13 Tokyo release, we follow this amazing custom and provide some golden improvements to Kyma features. This includes installation improvements in the Kyma Operator, a couple of tweaks in the brand new Serverless, and changes in the Kyma CLI command nomenclature. Apart from that, this release brings yet another set of new Compass features and redesigned backup functionality. Read on for the full story behind Kyma 1.13 Tokyo.

Reviewer 2: still ` "golden joinery".`

<!-- overview -->

See the overview of all changes in this release:

- [Application Connector](#application-connector) - Deprecated Connector and Application Registry APIs
- [Installation](#installation) - Improved error handling in Kyma Operator

> - [Eventing](#eventing) - Tracing enabled within Event Mesh

Author: Ad discussed, I'll leave Event Mesh.

## Application Connector

### Deprecated Connector and Application Registry APIs

With [Compass](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass) being the target API for the Application Connectivity topics, APIs of both Connector Service and Application Registry have been deprecated. To learn how to install Compass and integrate with it, refer to the [Compass documentation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.13/components/compass/#installation-enable-compass-in-kyma) or to the [Director GraphQL schema](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/components/director/pkg/graphql/schema.graphql) directly. Backward compatibility is preserved by the introduction of [Connectivity Adapter](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/tree/master/components/connectivity-adapter).

## Installation

### Improved error handling in Kyma Operator

Operations performed by Kyma Operator are now atomic. As a result, if an error occurs while processing a component, the controller restores the initial state of that component and retries the step. Read about [error handling and retry policy](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.13/root/kyma#installation-error-handling) for more details.

## Eventing

> ### Tracing enabled within Event Mesh

Author: Ad discussed, I'll leave Event Mesh.

## Compass

### Availability zones in provisioned clusters

From now on, the Runtime Provisioner fully supports the availability zone functionality exposed by hyperscalers. With the use of Gardener API, it is now possible to provision clusters with the **zoned** parameter set to `true` as long as a list of availability zones for the requested cluster is provided.

### Applications hidden from Runtimes

It is now possible to configure Compass not to return Applications labeled with specific labels in response to the `applicationsForRuntime` query used by Runtimes. To learn [how to hide Applications from Runtimes](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/docs/director/03-01-hide-applications-from-runtimes.md), read the documentation.

### Fetch Request for API specification

[Fetch Request](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/docs/director/03-fetch-requests.md) is a type in the Director API that contains all the information needed to fetch a specification from a given URL. If a Fetch Request is specified, the Director makes a synchronous call to the specified URL and downloads the specification.

## CLI

### Renamed provisioning commands

> [Kyma CLI commands](https://github.com/kyma-project/cli#commands) for cluster provisioning on GKE and AKS have been renamed. There are also three separate provisioning commands for Gardener, and provider-specific default values are applied for all the Gardener commands, making the CLI even more intuitive now. These are the available provisioning commands:

Reviewer 2: the CLI?

### Renamed provisioning commands

Kyma CLI commands for cluster provisioning on GKE and AKS are now renamed. There are also three separate provisioning commands for Gardener. With that, the usage is more intuitive and provider-specific default values are applied for all Gardener commands. These are the available provisioning commands:

```
kyma provision gke
kyma provision aks
kyma provision gardener gcp
kyma provision gardener az
kyma provision gardener aws
```

## Serverless

### Caching enabled

We have significantly reduced the overall time in which Functions are built. All steps executed during the build are now cached, which speeds up the whole process. For example, thanks to caching, all packages are installed only when you specifically modify them, not every time you build a Function as it was until now.

> ### Improved ServiceBinding creation
> 
> We also improved the way ServiceBindings are created for Function. So far, you could only create them when the Function was already running, so the order was sequential. We modified the component logic, and now it is possible to create ServiceBindings and Functions synchronously.

Reviewer 3: @klaudiagrz could you add one note to the Serverless part?

```suggestion
### Improved ServiceBinding creation

We also improved the way ServiceBindings are created for Function. So far, you could only create them when the Function was already running, so the order was sequential. We modified the component logic, and now it is possible to create ServiceBindings and Functions synchronously.

### Kubeless Function CRD will be removed

With the next Kyma release - 1.14 - the `functions.kubeless.io` will be no longer installed with Kyma and will be removed. It is dictated by Kyma is no longer using Kubeless, and all functions are migrated to `functions.serverless.kyma-project.io`. 
```

Author: @michal-hudy Added 😉

> With the next Kyma release, the `functions.kubeless.io` will be removed. As Kyma no longer uses Kubeless, all functions will be migrated to `functions.serverless.kyma-project.io`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With the next Kyma release, the `functions.kubeless.io` CRD will be removed. As Kyma no longer uses Kubeless, all functions will be migrated to `functions.serverless.kyma-project.io`.
```
Or no `CRD` and drop the `the`.

> With the next Kyma release, the `functions.kubeless.io` CRD will be removed. As Kyma no longer uses Kubeless, all functions will be migrated to `functions.serverless.kyma-project.io`.

Reviewer 3: Hm... `functions` will not be migrated :) User is responsible for migration (it is a manual process) before release 1.14.

Author: Corrected 👍

## Backup

### Backup functionality redesigned

> In this release, we removed the Backup component from Kyma, including the component-specific Velero drivers. The backup functionality is still available in a redesigned form that is based on a managed Kubernetes cluster for periodic backups of Kubernetes objects. The volumes, however, are not included in the automated backup procedure. That's why you should back up your volumes periodically using the VolumeSnapshot API resource. Read more about [backing up Kyma](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.13/root/kyma/#installation-back-up-kyma) in the documentation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this release, we removed the Backup component from Kyma, together with the component-specific Velero drivers. The backup functionality is still available, but in a redesigned form that is based on a managed Kubernetes cluster for periodic backups of Kubernetes objects. The volumes, however, are not included in the automated backup procedure. That's why you should back up your volumes periodically using the VolumeSnapshot API resource. Read more about [backing up Kyma](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.13/root/kyma/#installation-back-up-kyma) in the documentation.
```

I'd add this `but`, unless it's something that's already been there before.

Also, maybe it's just me, but I feel like this `including` here might be a bit ambiguous, as it might sound like we included it in Kyma instead of the removed component or a as a consequence of this removal. Should we change it to `together with`? No strong opinion on this one.

### Backup documentation

> With the new backup strategy, we provide a brand new set of the corresponding documentation. Refer to it to learn:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With the new backup strategy, we provide a brand new set of corresponding documentation. Refer to it to learn:
```

- [How to back up your volumes using on-demand volume snapshots](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.13/root/kyma/#installation-back-up-kyma)

> - [How to create on-demand volume snapshots](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.13/root/kyma/#tutorials-create-on-demand-volume-snapshots)

Reviewer: The links are a bit mixed up. It should be:
- Kyma backup functionality (this is an overview) 
- How to back up your volumes using on-demand volume snapshots

Author: Fixed 👍
